The Project Gutenberg EBook of Historical Tours in and about Boston, by 
American Oil Corporation

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Historical Tours in and about Boston
       Compliments of American Oil Company

Author: American Oil Corporation

Release Date: January 23, 2015 [EBook #48054]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HISTORICAL TOURS IN, ABOUT BOSTON ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Dave Morgan, Carol Spears
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net









                            HISTORICAL TOURS
                             _in and about_
                                _BOSTON_


[Illustration: ]

                             Compliments of
                          AMERICAN OIL COMPANY




                                CONTENTS
                                   *


                                   I
                              INTRODUCTION

                                   II
                  A DAY'S TRIP THROUGH HISTORIC BOSTON

                                  III
           A DAY'S AUTO TRIP THROUGH HISTORIC SUBURBAN BOSTON

                                   IV
                      BOSTON: THE CITY OF CULTURE

                                   V
                  A DAY'S AUTO TRIP ON THE NORTH SHORE

                                   VI
                  A DAY'S AUTO TRIP ON THE SOUTH SHORE


                  Copyright 1935, American Oil Company




                              INTRODUCTION
                                _BOSTON_
                                   *


You are now in the Historic City of Boston, the Birthplace of American
Liberty.

The Boston you see around you today is the capital city of the great
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, with a population, in its Greater Boston
area, of 2,307,897, and it covers 1022.6 square miles. The town was
settled over three hundred years ago by a God-loving people of rugged
character, industry and vision. Today it has grown into this great
modern manufacturing and commercial center. It boasts of two hundred
universities, colleges and schools, of which the major ones are Boston
University, Harvard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Radcliffe,
Wellesley, Tufts, Simmons, Boston College, New England Conservatory of
Music, Northeastern, and Massachusetts School of Art. There are two
hundred and twenty-four public libraries available with more than four
million books. There are five museums open to the public.

This little book has been designed by the American Oil Company for your
convenience during your stay in this historic town and has been divided
into five tours, each of which may be made easily in a day's time.




                    A DAY'S TRIP THROUGH _HISTORIC_
                                _BOSTON_
                                   *


The Start: Leaving the Providence Street side of the Hotel Statler, walk
directly ahead on Arlington Street one block to Boylston Street. Turn
right, proceed on Boylston Street to Charles Street, at which point we
cross to the


                             Boston Common

The Boston Common is a tract of land, containing nearly fifty acres,
bought in 1634 by Governor Winthrop and others from William Blaxton, who
held his title by right of possession gained prior to the settlement of
Boston in 1630. It was set apart for common use as a cow pasture and
training field, and amusingly still retains that status. As you enter
the Common, pause for a moment at the little cemetery on the Boylston
Street side for here lies buried Gilbert Stuart, the noted portrait
painter, and also a number of prominent Boston citizens.

Proceeding through the Common, we view the Soldiers' Monument which
crowns Flagstaff Hill where British Artillery was stationed during the
siege of Boston, when troops were quartered and entrenched there. From
what is now Park Square, the British embarked for Lexington on April 18,
1775. On the Common, the British mustered before the Battle of Bunker
Hill and here also gathered contingents for Colonial expeditions against
Louisburg and Quebec. Many Massachusetts regiments assembled here prior
to going to the front in the Civil War. On Beacon Street Mall, opposite
the State House, stands the Shaw monument by Augustus St. Gaudens, a
memorial to Colonel Robert G. Shaw and the Fifty-fourth Massachusetts
Infantry.

Continuing our stroll, we come to the Park and Tremont Street side of
the Common and directly across the street we find the old


                           Park Street Church

The Park Street Church was erected in 1810 on the site of the Granary
where the sails of the "Constitution" were made. Brimstone was stored in
the basement in 1812, giving the church the name of "Brimstone Corner."
Here, on July 4, 1832, "America" was first publicly sung.

Leaving the Park Street Church, we turn left on Tremont Street and move
on to the

[Illustration: OLD GRANARY BURYING GROUND]


                            Granary Cemetery

Here lie buried most of the personages of Historic Boston. Nine early
governors--Bellingham, Dummer, Hancock, Bowdoin, Eustis, Sumner, Adams,
Sullivan and Gore. Also Peter Faneuil, Paul Revere, the parents of
Benjamin Franklin, Robert Treat Paine, who was one of the signers of the
Declaration of Independence, Mary Goose (Mother Goose), and Thomas
Fleet, who arranged and published the Mother Goose Rhymes. Here also lie
buried in one grave Crispus Attucks, Patrick Carr, James Caldwell,
Samuel Maverick and Samuel Gray, who were the victims of the Boston
Massacre. Buried in the same grave with these men is Christopher Snyder,
a twelve year old boy, the only person to lose his life at the famous
Boston Tea Party.

Leaving the Granary Cemetery, we cross Tremont Street and turn left
toward School Street, on the corner of which stands

[Illustration: KING'S CHAPEL]


                             King's Chapel

King's Chapel was founded in 1686. The first chapel was built in 1688
the present one in 1749 of old English architecture. Here the British
worshipped during the siege. By a strange turn of events, this Tory
Church became the First Unitarian Church in the United States in 1785.
Although it is still considered Unitarian, it retains many of its
Episcopal symbols such as the cross, communion table, Apostle's Creed
and Ten Commandments on the altar. This Chapel is open daily to the
public from 9 a. m. to 4 p. m.

Leaving King's Chapel, turn right on Tremont Street and enter the


                      King's Chapel Burying Ground

This was the first burial ground in Boston. A stone bearing the
inscription "Captain Welden, February 18, 1630" proves this statement.
Here lie buried Governor John Winthrop, Lady Andros, wife of Governor
Andros, John Cotton, John Davenport, the founder of New Haven, Conn.,
William Dawes, who made the famous ride on another route with Paul
Revere, Mary Chilton, who, according to tradition, was the first woman
of the Mayflower's little band to touch the American soil. It is
interesting to know that Charles Dawes, the former Vice-President of the
United States, may be buried in the same grave as William Dawes, if he
so desires. Few burials have been made in King's Chapel since 1796. This
very interesting spot is open to the public from 9 a. m. to 5 p. m.,
daily.

Leaving the burial ground, we turn right on Tremont Street and proceed
to Court Street where we turn right and walk down to the City Hall
Annex, across from which is a tablet on the East corner of Franklin
Avenue which marks the


                        Franklin Printing Office

It was here that young Benjamin Franklin learned the printer's trade in
the office of James Franklin, his brother, where the "New England
Courant" was published.

We turn right, following the narrow alley and walk along the City Hall
Annex to School Street, where, if you will face to the right, you will
see a statue of Benjamin Franklin which marks the first location of


                     The Boston Public Latin School

This gave the street its name. Here Franklin, Hancock, Samuel Adams,
Cotton Mather, Henry Ward Beecher, Edward Everett Hale and many others
received their early education.

Proceeding left on School Street, we come to Washington Street, on the
north corner of which stood the Old Corner Book Store building, erected
in 1712 and known far and wide as a center of literature and a meeting
place for book lovers.

Cross Washington Street, turn right and we come to the


                        Old South Meeting House

Here the men of Boston gathered to protest against forcing Massachusetts
citizens into the English Navy, to demand the withdrawal of British
troops and to decide the fate of the hated tax on tea. It was used by
the British as a riding school during the siege of Boston. The present
building, erected in 1789, is open from 9 a. m. to 4 p. m., daily.
Admission, twenty-five cents.

Leaving the Meeting House, turn left to Milk Street. Almost across the
street, 17 Milk Street, was


                  The Birthplace of Benjamin Franklin

It is occupied today by a building housing the Boston Transcript. Here
is a bust of Franklin on the front of the building above the second
floor windows.

Retracing our steps, we turn right on Washington Street and proceed to

[Illustration: THE OLD STATE HOUSE]


                          The Old State House

Here the first Town House was built in 1657 in the earliest market place
of Boston. The present building was built in 1713, burned in 1747, and
immediately rebuilt with walls of the former building being utilized.
Here met Colonial Courts and Legislators, town and city governments and
the General Court of the Commonwealth. It was used as a City Hall from
1830 to 1840. It is open to the public from 9 a. m. to 4 p. m., daily.
From the windows, one may look out on the Washington Street side and see
the site of Paul Revere's Silver Shop.

Leaving the old State House, pause for a moment at Number 28 State
Street. Here is another historic site where stood the Royal Exchange
Tavern, from which the first stage coach started to New York on
September 7, 1772, "to go once every fourteen days." Across the street,
at 27 State Street, stood the first meeting house, built by the
Colonists in 1632. The church was a rude but substantial edifice of mud
walls with a thatched roof. The first pastor was John Wilson, who had
for his associate the Reverend John Cotton, the former pastor of old St.
Botolph's, Boston, England.

Proceeding down State Street to Number 30, we come to the site of


                          The Boston Massacre

A tablet on the wall tells the story. A circle in the pavement marks the
place where fell the first martyrs in the cause of American freedom.
Continuing down State Street, we come to the


                              Custom House

For the minute, let us forget historic Boston and take a rapid trip in
the elevator to the tower 490 feet high where we may obtain a wonderful
panorama of the city and take a splendid aerial photograph on a clear
day.

Leaving the building, we turn right on Milk Street and proceed to Oliver
Street. Turn left on Oliver and follow to Atlantic Avenue where you then
turn right to Pearl Street. Here on a building is a marker to the


                            Boston Tea Party

The marker reads "Here formerly stood Griffin's Wharf at which lay
moored December 16, 1773, three British ships with cargoes of tea. To
defeat King George's trivial but tyrannical tax of three pence per
pound, about ninety citizens of Boston, partly disguised as Indians,
boarded the ships, threw the cargoes, three hundred and forty-two chests
in all, into the sea and made the world ring with the patriotic exploit
of The Boston Tea Party."

Leaving this most historic point, we retrace our steps back over
Atlantic Avenue for some distance to Market Street. There we turn left
and proceed along until we come to the Quincy Market where we turn right
and then left to North Market Street where we find


                      The Durgin & Park Restaurant

Let us enter this old place. For over one hundred and fifty years it has
been used as a restaurant. Your grandfather or even your great
grandfather may have eaten here. We are met by a most gracious host and
food is served to us fresh from the market. When you have eaten enough
and absorbed a satisfying amount of the atmosphere of this fascinating
spot, you will find almost diagonally across the street the famous old

[Illustration: FANEUIL HALL]


                              Faneuil Hall

Faneuil Hall, affectionately called "The Cradle of Liberty," was built
in 1742 by Peter Faneuil. It was given to Boston as a Town Hall. Burned
in 1761, it was rebuilt in 1763. This is one of the few buildings in
Boston which is in the same condition today as it originally was, with
the exception perhaps of steel staircases, electricity, and steam heat.
The Hall is still used for public meetings. This was the center of
Revolutionary movements in Boston and the Colonies, and was used by the
British officers as a playhouse during the siege of Boston. The Hall has
many historic paintings and portraits. Don't fail to see the Military
Museum and Library of the Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company. It is
well worth the walk up to the third floor. Open week days from 9 a. m.
to 5 p. m.

Leaving Faneuil Hall, proceed down North Street, passing the AMOCO
Service Station on your right. Directly across the street and to the
left we pass by the Sumner Tunnel which was opened to the public in
1934. Continuing on down North Street, crossing Cross Street and
Richmond, we come to North Square where the little boys will not let you
miss the famous


                           Paul Revere House

The oldest house in the City of Boston, built in 1660 and purchased by
Paul Revere in 1770; here he resided until 1800. The immense fireplaces,
the ancient wallpaper and many other features from the Colonial period
make it a most interesting house to visit. Admission twenty-five cents.
Open from 10 a. m. to 4 p. m., daily.

[Illustration: PAUL REVERE'S HOUSE]

Leaving the Paul Revere House, we turn left at North Bennett Street and
proceed to Salem Street where we turn right on our way to the


                            Old North Church

This is the oldest church edifice in Boston. It was built in 1723. The
signal lanterns of Paul Revere displayed in the steeple of this church
on April 18, 1775, warned the people of the march of the British to
Concord and Lexington. Don't fail to ask the sexton to show you the old
communion chest recently found, and the statues which are reported to
have been seized from a French ship, bound for a monastery in Montreal.
Illustrated history of the church and admission to the steeple will cost
fifty cents. Otherwise, admission is free from 9 a. m. until 5 p. m.
Regular services Sunday.

Leaving the church, follow down Hull Street to


                       Copp's Hill Burying Ground

Here is the tomb of Edmund Hartt, builder of "Old Ironsides," Robert
Newman, the patriot who displayed the signal lanterns in the tower of
the Old North Church, and many other men of Colonial times.

Leaving Copp's Hill Burying Ground, turn right on Charter Street and
proceed to Commercial Street. Then turn left, following Commercial
Street around to the Charlestown bridge, turning right on Chelsea
Street, on the Charlestown side of the bridge, and right again at Navy
Street, leading to the entrance gate of the


                            Boston Navy Yard

The Boston Navy Yard has been in continuous operation since 1800. It
covers approximately 123-1/2 acres and has nearly one and one-half miles
of waterfront, three dry docks, a marine railway, ten ship piers, and
about one hundred and fifty buildings within its enclosure. It is
designated as a building yard. All rope used in the United States Navy
is manufactured here. Another interesting fact is that the chains used
overseas in planting mines that formed a net against German U boats were
made at the forge shop. You will be asked to leave your camera with the
guard at the gate who will also direct you to the famous


                   United States Frigate Constitution

Built by Edmund Hartt and launched September 20, 1797, "Old Ironsides,"
as she is familiarly known, was in about forty engagements and never
suffered defeat. She has been rebuilt and restored to her former
condition by the school children of the United States. Leaving the
"Constitution," we travel back to the main gate and out on to Chelsea
Street once more. Here we turn right on Chelsea Street and left on
Tremont Street to the


                          Bunker Hill Monument

Here you will see a granite obelisk, two hundred and twenty-one feet
high on Breed's Hill, within the lines of the American Redoubt which was
the center of the Battle of Bunker Hill on June 17, 1775. Open to the
public daily from 9 a. m. to 4 p. m., the admission fee being ten cents.

Leaving the monument, we go down Lexington Street to City Square where
we take the elevated train to North Station. Arriving at North Station,
go downstairs and take the subway back to Arlington Street where we
leave the subway and return to our starting point.

[Illustration: BUNKER HILL]




                  A DAY'S AUTO TRIP THROUGH _HISTORIC_
                           _SUBURBAN BOSTON_
                                   *


                               The Start

Let us get into our automobile in front of the Hotel Statler on the
Providence Street side. Swing left around the island and right at
Arlington Street and again right at Boylston Street along which we drive
to Charles Street, where we turn left. Proceed along Charles Street with
the Boston Common on our right and the Public Gardens on our left and
continue to the first rotary traffic circle where we swing around, by
the AMOCO Service Station and cross the Longfellow Bridge (made famous
by Longfellow's poem "I stood on the bridge at midnight"). Arriving on
the Cambridge shore, go sharp right and follow around to the right on to


                             Memorial Drive

This drive runs along the beautiful Charles River on which the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University boat crews
train. As we roll along the drive, we come to the famous Massachusetts
Institute of Technology on our right. From this school have graduated
many of our best technical men. On our left as we drive along, we see
Harvard Bridge, the Tech Boat House and the Weld Boat House. Across the
Charles, we see the Harvard Business School, while on our right we begin
to pass the "houses" of Harvard College. Continuing along the drive to
Mt. Auburn Street, we turn left. A short way down Mt. Auburn Street on
our left we pass the Stillman Infirmary, maintained as a hospital for
Harvard students, and the Cambridge Hospital. On the river bank directly
in the rear of this group of buildings is the supposed site of Leif
Erickson's old house built in the year 1001. Continue on Mt. Auburn
Street two blocks to Coolidge Avenue and turn left. On our right is


                          Mt. Auburn Cemetery

Sometimes called "The Cemetery of Poets" for here are buried Henry
Wadsworth Longfellow, James Russell Lowell, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
Charles Sumner, Edward Everett, Louis Agassiz and Phillips Brooks. Run
the car about one-tenth of a mile along the cemetery fence and stop.
Through the fence one can see the beautiful tomb of Mary Baker Eddy,
founder of the Christian Science Church. After admiring the beautiful
setting, we turn our car about and travel back to Mt. Auburn Street,
where we turn right and then left on Elmwood Avenue, on the corner of
which stands


                     The James Russell Lowell House

[Illustration: THE JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL HOUSE]

Built in 1767. Used as a hospital during the Battle of Bunker Hill.
Later Benedict Arnold used it as his headquarters for three weeks. James
Russell Lowell was born here in 1819. Follow Elmwood Avenue to Brattle
Street where we turn right. On our left we see the Fayerweather House
and the Nichols House, both built in 1660. Further down Brattle Street,
we come to the Henry Wadsworth Longfellow House, built in 1759. Turning
left at Mason Street we pass Radcliffe College. In 1894 the Society for
the Collegiate Instruction of Women or more familiarly the "Harvard
Annex" was incorporated as Radcliffe College. Named after Lady Moulson,
née Ann Radcliffe, who was the first woman to make a gift of money to
Harvard. We follow Mason Street to the


                            Cambridge Common

Directly in the center of the street we find the tablet which marks the
spot where stood the famous elm under which Washington took command of
the Army on July 3, 1775. The tree itself collapsed of old age in 1923.
Turning right we come to


                             Christ Church

Built in 1761 by the Tories, it was used by the Provincial troops as a
barracks during the siege of Boston and the lead pipe's of the organ
were melted for bullets. Washington attended services here New Year's
Eve 1775. We pass from the Church yard to the Old Burying Ground which
contains the bodies of numerous Colonial people. At the edge of the
cemetery we find an old granite milestone which bears the inscription
"Boston 8 miles 1734."

Entering our car we swing left around the Common following the traffic
arrows and pass


                           Harvard University

This is the oldest and in many ways the most distinguished school of
learning in the United States. Built in 1636. However, this priority is
oftentimes disputed as William and Mary College in Virginia claims its
date of charter to be 1617. In order to visit Harvard you should set
aside a whole day. Secure a guide by applying to Room L in University
Hall, and everything of interest will be included in this day's
adventure. Today let us continue by turning right on Kirkland Street,
passing the Harvard Law School on our left and Memorial Hall on our
right. Turn left at Oxford Street. That big building on your right is
the University Museum. Here is located the Agassiz Museum of glass
flowers, and even if we must hurry, let us stop and view this unique
collection. After our visit we continue to Everett Street where we turn
left, passing the huge tennis courts on our left and continue to
Massachusetts Avenue where we turn right.

[Illustration: DUDLEY MEMORIAL GATEWAY--HARVARD]

We are now on the famous course over which the British passed on their
way to Lexington and Concord, April 18, 1775. We shall follow
Massachusetts Avenue clear through to Concord. After passing through
Cambridge and North Cambridge, the first town we come to is


                               Arlington

Here at the corner of Pleasant and Massachusetts Avenue occurred a minor
skirmish when Colonists attacked a British Commissary. Next we come to
Jason Street on which stands


                        The Jason Russell House

It was near this point that the first battle on the fateful day of April
19, 1775 was fought. Over half of the Colonists killed that day met
their death here in a fearful hand to hand struggle with the British.
This house is open to the public April to October, admission free, from
2 p. m. to 5 p. m.

We will continue on our way till we come to the Lexington Green. We park
our car in front of


                             Buckman Tavern

In this historic tavern the Minute Men gathered and waited in the tap
room for the British. We stand in front of the old bar and almost seem
to hear the clank of the tankards. There are the old bullet moulds, the
powder horns, the bullet holes left in the old door from stray shots of
the British, the old bedrooms and furnishings which carry you back to
those days when the Colonists fought for liberty. Admission to the
tavern is free.

Leaving the Tavern, cross the street to the Green and view the statue
erected in honor of the Minute Men. Next walk over to that big boulder
and read the immortal command:

  "Stand your ground.
  Don't fire unless fired upon.
  But if they mean to have war
  Let it begin here."
                                                          Captain Parker

We now go back to the car and drive past the Green to Hancock Street.
Turn right and drive to the


                          Hancock Clark House

[Illustration: HARRINGTON HOUSE]

Built in 1698 and enlarged in 1734. From 1698 to 1805 it was occupied
successively by Reverend John Hancock and Reverend Jonas Clark. Adams
and Hancock were staying here the morning of April 19, 1775, when Paul
Revere rode into town warning them that the British were coming. You
will find the contents of the house most interesting. A historian is
present to answer questions. Admission is free. House open 11 a. m. to 4
p. m.

Leaving the house turn the car around and drive back to Bedford Street.
On the corner of Bedford Street and Elm Avenue stands the


                       Jonathan Harrington House

Jonathan Harrington was the first mortally wounded Minute Man. He made
his way from the Green to the house, falling dead at his wife's feet.

[Illustration: WAYSIDE]

Passing by the house, we come to the old burial ground on our left.
Turning right and following Massachusetts Avenue, we come to U. S. Route
2A, where you will see a marker on the right hand side of the road which
reads as follows: "This bluff was used as a rallying point by the
British April 19, 1775. After a sharp fight they retreated to Fiske Hill
from which they were driven in great confusion." We bear right here and
continue. ^8/_10 of a mile from this point we come to two ice cream
parlors, one on each side of the road. Drive in the right hand one. Here
we find a monument telling the story of "The Capture of Paul Revere."
William Dawes, who also rode from Boston, escaped the British, leaving
Dr. Prescott alone to carry the news of the British advance. After being
questioned, Revere returned home. As we approach Concord we come to


                             "The Wayside"

This was the only house ever owned by Nathaniel Hawthorne. It was also
the girlhood home of Louisa M. Alcott and was later occupied by Margaret
Sidney (Mrs. Daniel Lothrop), authoress of "Five Little Peppers." It is
interesting to know that three authors with no connection or
relationship all occupied this house. Miss Margaret Lothrop, daughter of
the authoress, now owns the house and will personally conduct you
through it. Don't fail to stop. You will live with Hawthorne, Alcott and
Sidney under her guiding hand. Open 10 a. m. to 6 p. m., admission 25c.
The next house on the right is the Louisa M. Alcott house. Drive on into
Concord. Pass the Green and turn right at Monument Street. About
one-half mile down this street, we come to the old Battle Field. Park
your car in the space provided and walk through the Parkway to the

[Illustration: CONCORD BRIDGE]


                             Concord Bridge

Here we see the grave of the unknown British soldiers and the Minute Man
statue, erected to the heroes "who fired the shot heard round the
world." You will be impressed by the beautiful surroundings and the
silence. When you have dreamed long enough, get in the car, drive back
to Concord Green, turn left on to Route 126. Follow 126 out of town. You
will come to


                              Lake Walden

Here the great nature author, Thoreau, wrote many of his works.
Continuing for about 7 miles on Route 126 to Wayland, we come to Route
20, the old Boston & Albany Post Road. We turn right and drive westward
about 5-1/2 miles through So. Sudbury till we reach a roadway on the
right leading to


                           "The Wayside Inn"

Originally called Howe's Tavern and later Red Horse Tavern, in 1863 it
was named "The Wayside Inn." It was here that Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
wrote the "Tales of a Wayside Inn." The house and grounds are now owned
and maintained by Mr. Henry Ford. At the gatehouse you will find the
stage coach used to bring General LaFayette to Boston for the laying of
the cornerstone of Bunker Hill Monument in 1825.

[Illustration: WAYSIDE INN]

Register, step up to the bar and order your lunch, after which you may
wander through the Inn until you are called by the host. After you have
eaten in the dining room (built in 1800) walk out through the gardens.
You will find the old grist mill interesting and unique. Also, don't
fail to visit the Old School House spoken of in the famous poem "Mary
Had a Little Lamb."

After you have seen everything on this historic estate get back in the
car and visit the old country store. Drive back to Boston over Route 20
to Commonwealth Avenue and Clarendon Street where you turn right
crossing Newbury and Boylston Streets. Turning left at St. James Avenue
will bring you back to the door of the Hotel Statler.

[Illustration: OLD MILL--SUDBURY]




                                _BOSTON_
                          THE CITY OF CULTURE
                                   *


Ask the people at your hotel to direct you to the nearest subway and
ride to Park Street. As you leave the car at Park Street, you are in the
oldest subway in the world, except, perhaps, the one in Budapest which
always has disputed with Boston this particular claim. This subway was
opened in Boston in September, 1897. Going up the stairs, you will
emerge from the subway onto the famous Boston Common. Turn left, and you
will have no trouble in finding the


                              State House

[Illustration: STATE HOUSE]

Located on Beacon Street at the head of Park Street. The hill on which
the State House stands was originally called Treamount, later this was
changed to Sentry Hill when it was used as a lookout, and after the
erection of the Beacon in 1634-1635, it received the name of Beacon
Hill. The cornerstone of the "Bulfinch" front of the State House was
laid on July 4, 1795, and the extension was built in 1889 at a cost of
four million dollars. The construction of the east and west wings was
completed in 1916. The State House is decorated with statuary, historic
paintings, battle flags and war relics. The House of Representatives
contains the celebrated Cod Fish emblems. The gilded dome, lighted at
night by four hundred and ninety-eight electric lights, makes a
magnificent display. Open to the public on week days from 9 a. m. to 5
p. m., and on Saturday from 9 a. m. to 12 noon.

Leaving the State House, walk straight down Beacon Street with the
Boston Common on your left. Cross Charles Street and enter the


                             Public Gardens

This is about one-half the size of the Common and contains an artificial
pond of irregular shape, the beauty of which is enhanced by the graceful
swan boats which glide over its surface. A monument commemorating the
discovery of ether is erected at one side of the Gardens; thousands of
men and women visit this shrine yearly. Proceed through this beautiful
Shrine of Nature, coming out at Arlington Street and Newbury Street, on
the corner of which stands the

[Illustration: PUBLIC GARDENS]


                           Ritz Carlton Hotel

This is one of Boston's finest hotels, noted for its hospitality,
excellent food and social events.

Continuing on down Newbury Street, we come to Berkeley Street, on the
corner of which stands


                       Museum of Natural History

The building is full of New England economic, geological, and special
mineral collections, mammals, birds, fishes, fossils, plants, marine
invertebrates, and insects beautifully mounted. The building is open to
the public free of charge daily from 9 a. m. to 4 p. m., and on Sundays
from 1 to 4:30 p. m.

Leaving the Museum of Natural History, turn right at Boylston Street and
proceed to


                             Copley Square

This is architecturally considered one of the finest municipal squares
in the country, if not in the world. On your left is Boston's famous


                             Trinity Church

The facade of this church is one of the richest examples of
ecclesiastical architecture in the city. Mr. H. H. Richardson was the
architect. Interior decorative work by John LaFarge. St. Gaudens' statue
of Phillips Brooks is on the Huntington Avenue side. In the cloister are
stones from old St. Botolph's Church in Boston, England. Bishop Brooks
was rector of Trinity from 1869 to 1891.

To the left of the church and across St. James Avenue is the


                           Copley Plaza Hotel

It is and has been for twenty years New England's distinctive society
hotel. The main ballroom is decorated in the style of Louis XIV with
marble bases and gray Sienna stone for walls. The Sheraton Room opening
directly off the lobby is furnished in Italian Renaissance style. The
main cafe contains the celebrated Merry-Go-Round bar, a unique
attraction. Directly in front of you is the


                         Boston Public Library

Designed after the style of the Italian Renaissance by McKim, Meade &
White, the interior of the building is of great beauty and visitors come
from all parts of the world to admire it. Famous murals by Pierre Cecile
Puvis de Chavannes, Edwin Austin Abbey, and John Singer Sargent will
hold you spellbound. Visitors are advised to purchase the handbook of
the Boston Public Library, on the second floor, for thirty-five cents in
order to remember the various art treasures.

[Illustration: BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY]

Leaving the Public Library, turning right on Huntington Avenue and
proceeding past Mechanics Building, home of Boston Automobile Shows and
other notable expositions, we continue on Huntington Avenue to Norway
Street and turn right to the


                        Christian Science Church

Rising over the city's roofs and spires is the great white dome of The
First Church of Christ, Scientist, affectionately known as the "Mother
Church." In Boston, the Christian Science movement was founded, and its
administrative center is there. The branch churches of Christ,
Scientist, are to be found in almost every part of the civilized world.

The original edifice, completed and dedicated in 1895 with a seating
capacity of 1,000 persons, soon became inadequate to accommodate those
desiring to attend its services. Accordingly, in 1905 there was erected
the extension, crowned by the majestic dome reaching to a height of two
hundred and twenty-four feet above the street, having a diameter of
eighty-two feet. The auditorium seats approximately five thousand. It
required two years to build and cost nearly two million dollars. It was
dedicated in June, 1906, and like all Christian Science ventures, it was
free of debt. No funerals, marriages or social entertainments add to its
income. The church is built of Indiana limestone and New Hampshire
granite, New Hampshire being the native state of Mary Baker Eddy, the
discoverer and founder of Christian Science. The great organ is a
notable instrument, its gilded pipes rising behind the quiet and
dignified rostrum whereon stand the two desks for the readers who
conduct the services. The general effect is one of breadth,
spaciousness, and all pervading light. Within and without, the church
demands attention and admiration as one of the largest and most
impressive churches in the world.

Leaving the Christian Science Church, we go directly to Massachusetts
Avenue, and turning left come to


                           Horticultural Hall

Here Boston holds most of its famous flower shows. Across the street is
the home of

[Illustration: SYMPHONY HALL]


                     The Boston Symphony Orchestra

The Boston Symphony Orchestra is something more than half a century old.
More notable than the span of its years is its place in the growth of
musical America. In 1881, the late Major Henry L. Higginson realized the
first dream and aspiration of his life by founding in Boston an
orchestra of European standards, a phenomenon then unknown in America.
The idea had come to him as a student in Vienna. It was an ambitious
dream of an impecunious young man but after many years, having made his
fortune as a banker, he was able to give the Boston Symphony Orchestra
to the world. He engaged the finest musicians in Europe and brought to
this country a succession of the greatest conductors of their time. He
set a new precedent by exacting of the musicians entire devotion of
their talent to the orchestra. He gave entire artistic freedom to the
conductor. The wisdom of these policies soon showed as each conductor
expended his genius to the cumulative improvement of an ensemble which
soon had the world's attention. The present director is the famous Dr.
Serge Koussevitsky who began in 1924, and his term as conductor has
extended far beyond any single term of the ten previous conductors. The
long association of such an orchestra with such a leader is eloquently
justified by the results. The great Russian conductor has brought new
beauties to the Boston Symphony Orchestra, a fresh importance and
distinction reflected in the greatly enlarged public. The festivals and
special choral concerts, the broadened repertory, new and old, of the
regular concerts and the quality of each performance are as indefinable
as the genius which directs them. After you have viewed the auditorium
and the huge organ, almost directly across the street on the corner of
Gainsboro and Huntington Avenue, we find the famous


                   New England Conservatory of Music

The New England Conservatory of Music was founded in 1867. Hand in hand
with the development of modern America, it soon reached a leading
position among music schools in this country. Students from many parts
of the world have come to this seat of musical learning and, again, have
departed with a thorough technical and artistic training in their
possession.

The school buildings are especially adapted for the many details of
thorough musical instruction. There are three concert halls, with a
total seating capacity of over 2,000; a large library, with many rare
volumes; a fine concert organ and fourteen other organs for teaching and
practice purposes; and, added to these, seventy-five class rooms and
private studios.

A walk through the buildings confirms the impression that here is a
veritable beehive of musical activity.

From the Conservatory of Music, we cross Huntington Avenue once more and
continue about one block south, reaching the


                           Boston Opera House

Located on the corner of Opera Place, which was formerly called St.
Stephen's, for years it has been used for the Metropolitan Opera
singers, as well as local opera. Leaving the Opera House, we again turn
right on Huntington Avenue and proceed to the


                          Museum of Fine Arts

The Boston Museum of Fine Arts occupies the unique position of being one
of the few museums in the world created and supported solely by private
citizens. The Museum is well equipped with guides who are commissioned
to explain to the visitors any part of the collection about which one
wishes to know. In this little book, we cannot begin to describe the
contents of the Museum of Fine Arts, but we hope you will discover its
beauties for yourself.

[Illustration: BOSTON MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS]

After leaving the Museum of Fine Arts, we turn first to the left on
Huntington Avenue, retracing our steps towards the Boston Opera House
and then turn left on Forsythe Way to the Fenway, turning left again and
walking to the south end of the Fenway where we find the


                    Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum

Here is a marble palace, once the home of Mr. and Mrs. John Lowell
Gardner, filled with rare treasures from all over the world. Catalogues
may be purchased at the door for a small sum which will enable you to go
through this beautiful museum which is open to the public on Tuesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays from 10 a. m. to 4 p. m., the charge of
admission being twenty-five cents. On Sundays, the Museum is open from 1
to 4 p. m., admission free. It is closed on all national holidays and
during the month of August.

Retracing our steps to Huntington Avenue and going to Ruggles Street, we
find ourselves surrounded by colleges and schools. At our left on the
corner of Ruggles Street and Huntington Avenue we find the Wentworth
Institute. On our right we see Simmons College for Women, south of
which, on the corner of Longwood Avenue, we find the Harvard Medical
School. To the west of Simmons College, we see Emmanuel College.

If you board a Huntington Avenue car going east you can transfer at Park
Street, and you will arrive back at your hotel regardless of what part
of the city it is in.

[Illustration: OLD TOWN HOUSE--MARBLEHEAD]




                        A DAY'S AUTO TRIP ON THE
                             _NORTH SHORE_
                                   *


Starting in front of the Hotel Statler, Providence Street side, get into
your car and follow the island around to the left turning right at
Arlington Street and again right at Boylston Street. The Boston Public
Gardens will be on your left and after crossing Charles Street the
Boston Common will be on the left. At the second stop light turn left at
Tremont Street. Continue along Tremont Street, still passing the Common
on the left, until we come to the Old Park Street Church, spoken of in
one of our earlier chapters, the Granary Cemetery, the Parker House
(made famous by Parker House rolls), opposite which is King's Chapel and
King's Chapel burying ground. You come out at Scollay Square; cross in a
straight line to Cornhill Street. Follow through to Washington Street,
crossing Washington Street in a straight line for Faneuil Hall, commonly
known as "The Cradle of Liberty." Here turn left, turning right almost
immediately, following the Sumner Tunnel sign on to North Street.
Continue on North Street to the AMOCO Service Station, turning left and
into the Tunnel which you go through to East Boston.

Leaving the Tunnel, turn right on Porter Street and go to Chelsea Street
where you turn left following along to Bennington Street turning right
on Bennington Street, proceed to Swift Street. Turn left and then right
on to the Boulevard for Revere. The buildings seen over the top of the
Mexican Petroleum tanks are the U. S. Marine Hospital buildings. Going
along the Boulevard a short distance, you come to the


                        Suffolk Downs Race Track

the latest and one of the largest race tracks to be built in America; a
marvelous piece of engineering--the transformation of a city dump into a
spot of beauty as well as a great place of amusement for a sport loving
people.

Continue to the 1-A arrow and follow it around to the first stop light,
then follow the car tracks to Revere Beach Parkway. Turn left, follow
the Revere Beach Parkway with the ocean on your right, and


                              Revere Beach

the famous Coney Island of New England on the left. It is here that
thousands seek relief from the city's heat during the summer and the
sandy beach is crowded with people. Follow the shore line. The point of
land seen extending out into the water as you approach the rotary
traffic is Nahant. Follow the rotary traffic around to your left and you
come to Route 1-A again, passing over the new General Edwards Memorial
Bridge. Continue over Route 1-A to the town of Lynn, turning right at
Washington Street and proceeding along same to the Lynn Shore Drive
where you turn left, following the trail of Boston's finest summer
playground. Approaching


                               Swampscott

you will be pleased with the natural beauty of the surroundings, and it
is here that artists come from all over the country to paint pictures of
a "stern and rockbound coast."

Follow Route 129, passing the Civil War Monument on your left, to
Puritan Road and bear right, soon passing on your left the


                            New Ocean House

famous for its cuisine and genuine New England hospitality. Now you
begin to pass many beautiful summer estates, coming out once more at
Route 129 where you turn right and follow along, admiring these lovely
homes.

Swing right at Commercial Street in Marblehead, following to Gregory
Street where you turn left, passing on the right the Hotel Marblehead
and the Fo'cas'le, plainly marked by a huge anchor by the side of the
road. You are now in historic


                               Marblehead

a typical old New England town with its narrow streets winding around
like the cow paths of old. Here are interesting old houses and doorways
and the rustic cottages of the fishermen which attract artists from all
over the world. Turn right and then left through these narrow streets,
pausing where you will at gift shops, antique shops and boat yards.

Ride to the end of the town so that nothing may be missed in this quaint
New England fishing village. When you come to a sign saying


                             "Fort Sewall"

park your car and walk down the narrow lane to view this fort built in
1742 for defense against French Cruisers. The U. S. S. Constitution
sought shelter under the fort's guns when chased by His Majesty's ships
Tenadoes and Endymion on April 3, 1814. The fort was named after Samuel
Sewall of Marblehead, who was Chief Justice of Massachusetts in 1814.

Retrace your ride, admiring the Marblehead Yacht Club on the opposite
side of the bay, to a sign which says "One Way Street" on the corner of
which is a drugstore owned by H. Gilbride. Follow this street to the
end, and turn left around the old Town House built in 1727. Then turn
right and follow what was formerly Academy Way, now called Pleasant
Street, through the center of the more modern town of Marblehead.

Take Route 129 to the historic town of Salem. Follow the car tracks on
Lafayette Street to Washington Street where we bear left, following
Washington to Essex. At this point, turn left coming soon to the


                            Old Witch House

on the right. It is the oldest house in Salem, and is said to have been
the home of Roger Williams as early as 1635.

Continue down Essex Street, admire the old doorways which are numerous
and have been the inspiration for many paintings, to Boston Street. Turn
around the Joseph Hodges Choate Monument and go back up Essex Street. At


                          No. 393 Essex Street

pause for a minute and view a rare old Colonial house, the home of the
Reverend Thomas Barnard, the first pastor of the North Church. At Summer
Street, one is obliged to turn right and again left at Chestnut Street,
passing the railroad depot on the right. Turn right onto Washington
Street and then left onto Derby Street which follows straight through to
Turner Street. Turn right down Turner and


                       The House of Seven Gables

is located at the foot of the street. It has been restored to its
ancient condition--a rare place to visit. A hidden stairway runs from
the attic and it has many other thrilling features. The ancient garden
adds much to its loveliness, and as a special treat for the visitors,
they may also go through the Hooper Hathaway house, once known as the
old bakery, and which formerly stood at Washington Street, north of the
entrance to the tunnel.

[Illustration: OLD DOORWAY--SALEM]

Retracing your way along Turner Street, cross Derby Street and follow
Turner to Essex where you turn left passing the Stevens Daniel House.
Turn right at Washington Square, follow the Square around to the corner
of Briggs Street where stands the house of


                           Nathaniel Silsbee

shipmaster, merchant and senator from Massachusetts 1773-1850. Follow
the Common around to the left and turn right on Mall Street traveling
down to


                         Number 14 Mall Street

It was here that Nathaniel Hawthorne wrote "The Scarlet Letter." Turn
right at the end of Mall following this street to Route 1-A, swinging
left around the traffic dummy, follow Route 1-A toward Beverly. Bear
right on Route 127 which you follow to Gloucester.

As you pass


                             Beverly Farms

you will see estates which rival the Arabian Nights for grace and
beauty. Next in order is

[Illustration: GATEWAY TO A NORTH SHORE ESTATE]


                         Manchester-by-the-Sea

One of the oldest towns on the North Shore. The old Town House built in
1809 is still used as a Congregational Church. The little one story
houses scattered here and there carry you back to the days of the
Puritan Fathers. The old cemetery in which the first interment was made
in 1661 is also interesting.


                                Magnolia

Here is the scene of Norman's Woe made famous by Longfellow's poem "The
Wreck of the Hesperus."


                               Gloucester

You are now entering one of the most famous fishing ports in the world.
You will find "The Tavern" a most delightful place to eat if you care
for sea foods. At the traffic dummy swing right and then left at
Thurston's Spar Yard and follow Rogers Street along the waterfront to
the main office of the


                      Frank E. Davis Fish Company

No one should pass through Gloucester without stopping here. Frank Davis
is an old-fashioned fisherman who knows how to prepare fish in an
appetizing manner. His mackerel, lobster and codfish are shipped by mail
and Railway Express all over the United States. Here you may secure a
souvenir booklet containing many delicious sea food recipes.

[Illustration: GLOUCESTER]

Proceed to Pearce Street where turn right on to Main Street. Follow to
the


                        Gorton-Pew Fish Company

To see the name Gorton is to think of fish. Here one can secure
permission to visit the canneries. The history of this great company
goes back to 1623 when the Pilgrim Fathers founded Gloucester. There is
every evidence to prove that the present officers are descendants of the
original settlers even though the present company had its organization
in 1849. It is interesting to note that the pilgrims shipped the first
cargo of fish to Spain in 1623.


                          Rockport or Cape Ann

[Illustration: ROCKPORT]

If you are not too tired you may continue on your way over the shore
road making the complete trip around Cape Ann, a promontory which
extends out into the Atlantic Ocean with its beautiful entrancing rocks,
beaches and rolling sea. This route is a most interesting panorama. You
will pass the largest lobster fishery in America. It is impossible for
you to get lost as the road winds around and back into Gloucester, where
you may retrace your ride along Route 127 to Beverly where you follow
Route 1-A to Salem. At Salem swing right on to Essex Street, leaving
Salem by way of Route 107 to Lynn. Leaving Lynn, pass over the famous
marsh highway where the government has been carrying on extensive
research for mosquito control. Continue to follow Route 107 through
Revere to Route 1-A where turn right for Boston until you come to Route
1 which follow to the Charles River. Here, instead of turning right on
Route 1, keep on across the bridge to the Boston side, turning right on
Charles Street, soon passing the Massachusetts General Hospital on the
left to Embankment Road where we turn right passing under the Longfellow
Bridge to Beacon Street. At Beacon Street, turn right and again left at
the second block which is Clarendon Street crossing Commonwealth Avenue,
Newbury Street and Boylston Street; turn left on St. James Avenue, and
you will arrive back at the Statler Hotel.




                        A DAY'S AUTO TRIP ON THE
                             _SOUTH SHORE_
                                   *


Starting at the Providence Street side of the Hotel Statler, swing your
car around the island and go straight out St. James Avenue to Huntington
Avenue where you bear left and follow Huntington Avenue to Jamaicaway.
Pass under the underpass and turn right at fantail bearing right to get
on to Routes 1 and 3.


                               Jamaicaway

One of the many beautiful parkways for which Boston is noted. As you
ride along you come to Moraine Street, on the corner of which is


                      "The House of the Shamrock"

affectionate name for the home of the Honorable James Michael Curley,
three times mayor of Boston and later governor of Massachusetts. His
life has been one of romance and reads like a page from Alger--a poor
boy, who through his own efforts became governor of the Commonwealth.

We continue on Route 3 to the junction of Route 37 and turn right on to
Granite Avenue, soon crossing the


                             Neponset River

It is a salt water river which rises and falls with the tides. A little
further along on your left is


                        The Wollaston Golf Club

Considered one of Boston's finest clubs although it offers little in
scenic beauty. The course is well laid out and the hazards good.

[Illustration: ADAMS MANSION]

Follow Granite Avenue to East Milton. Turn left at Route 135. This is
Adams Street. This street received its name from the two Presidents.
Follow straight on this street until you come to


                           The Adams Mansion

_Both_ John Adams and John Quincy Adams made this old mansion their home
during the later years of their lives. John Adams celebrated the
fiftieth anniversary of Independence Day on July 4, 1826 in this old
house. Open 9 a. m. to 4 p. m., admission 25c.

Leaving this charming old place, continue on Adams Street to Hancock
Street which you follow to the


                          First Parish Church

It was established in 1689. Both John Adams and John Quincy Adams are
buried in this church. In order to go down to the crypt, it is necessary
to get in touch with the janitor or sexton who is always willing to
accommodate those desirous of visiting the final resting place of these
two early Presidents.

Leaving the Church, follow Hancock Street to School Street and turn
right. Follow the street car tracks along School Street, turning left at
Franklin and continue to the


                            John Adams House

_Here_ on October 19, 1735, John Adams, the second President of the
United States, was born. It is a most interesting house, having much of
the old furniture, and is kept in good condition. Next door is the


                        John Quincy Adams House

Here on July 11, 1767, the sixth President of the United States was
born. It is filled with antiques and evokes stirring memories.
Historians are in both houses to answer questions. Both houses are open
every day from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. Admission 25c to each house.

[Illustration: JOHN QUINCY ADAMS HOUSE]

After you have visited these two historic houses, turn the car around
and retrace your journey over Franklin to School Street, turning right
and continue to Quincy Avenue where you again turn right and follow to
Route 3. This route soon brings us to Weymouth Landing and then to


                                Weymouth

This town was noted in history for being the location of Arnold's Tavern
where the committee of safety met in the days of and before the
Revolution. You pass the outskirts of Hingham, Duxbury, and soon come to
the center of Kingston. You are now nearing Plymouth, whose historic
doors are always open.


                                Plymouth

It is a city with thriving industries and all the pleasures to be found
in New England's summer resorts. If you wish to study the historic side,
it would be wise for you to close your eyes to the modern side of this
community and drive along Route 3 to Chilton Street where you turn left
and then right again at the waterfront and continue to


                             Plymouth Rock

[Illustration: PLYMOUTH ROCK]

The rock is located easily. A beautiful canopy of granite has been
erected over the historic stone. To protect it from souvenir hunters, it
was necessary to build a steel fence around it. To the stranger who does
not know the true topography of Massachusetts but who recalls various
poems and songs, it is always a surprise not to find a "stern and
rock-bound coast." Sand is in great abundance, the beaches and sand
bluffs extending in all directions. Recalling your history, you can
picture the Mayflower failing to weather the Cape, putting in to this
safe but shallow harbor. Myles Standish had already explored and
reported back at Provincetown, where the ship had anchored, "good water
in the brook and timber on the hills for homes." Winter was coming and
it was advisable to settle, and so these heroic people landed here. One
hundred and two souls, according to history, had journeyed to this new
country to find religious freedom for themselves. Turning from the rock,
climb the stairway leading up the grassy bluff to


                              Cole's Hill

This is where the Pilgrims buried their fast diminishing band in the
dead of night so that the Indians lurking in the forests could not
determine how many were left. It is a recorded fact that of the one
hundred and two Pilgrims who landed, nearly one-half were buried during
that first sad winter. The Indian monument standing near the sepulchre
is of Massasoit, the great sachem of the Wampanoags. He was the friend
of the Pilgrims and, in reality, their preserver for, without his
kindness, they all would have perished. From Cole's Hill, go directly
left on Carver Street to


                             Leyden Street

Originally named First Street. Just to the left of the junction of
Carver and Leyden Streets was the site of the first "Common House"
raised in Plymouth. This interesting street has many markers on it
telling the story of Goodman, Winslow, Brewster and Howland.

Walking straight up Leyden Street, crossing Main Street, we come to


                  The First Parish Church (Unitarian)

This was the church organization of the Pilgrims. The first church on
this site was erected in 1683. The present church is the fifth to be
built on this site and was completed and dedicated on Forefather's Day
1899. On your right when facing the First Parish Church is


                      The Church of the Pilgrimage

This is the Congregational Church and was the result of a division over
doctrinal matters in 1801. The present church was built in 1840. Proceed
up the stone steps at the right of the First Parish Church and you will
come to


                              Burial Hill

Here you will find all the interesting graves marked plainly with yellow
signs--Governor Bradford, Edward Gray, Thomas Clark, John Howland, John
Cotton and others. As we stand here amid these historic and humble hero
dead, we read these significant words on the obelisk in memory of
Governor William Bradford: "Do not basely relinquish what the Fathers
with difficulty attained."

You will have no trouble locating the site of the first fort where five
cannons were placed after great difficulty in 1621. Also, the grave of
General James Warren, soldier, patriot and scholar.

Leaving the graveyard, retrace your steps down Leyden Street to Main
Street. Turn left and then right when you come to


                             Middle Street

This street was once known as King. Little remains of Colonial days
except the street to remind us of old Plymouth. Turn left at Carver on
to


                              North Street

You will find the Edward Winslow House built in 1754. He was very loyal
to the Crown during the Revolution and so the house was confiscated.
Going back to your car, get in and go toward the Cape on Water Street
and soon after you pass Leyden Street, you come to


                               Town Brook

Here was the drinking water of the Pilgrims. In days of yore, it was
full of alewives, which gave the Puritans fish at their very door. Even
today, trout lurk in many a dark corner of the brook. In 1909 the town
purchased the land here and established the beautiful Brewster Gardens.
Continue on Water Street to Sandwich Street. Almost in front of you is


                           John Howland House

It was built in 1666 and is called the house of the last Mayflower
Pilgrims in Plymouth. It was restored and put in complete repair by the
Howland descendants in 1909. You may drive in and visit, admission 25c.
Open 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. A little way towards the Cape and you come to
Winter Street. Turn left and find


                          The Old Harlow House

It is known better as the Kendall Holmes House after the last family to
live there. It is extremely interesting. The architecture is simple and
therein lies its beauty. The old stairways and open fireplaces all
remain as they were built. The occupants have enjoyed and loved this old
house and so during all these generations there has been no need to
restore as loving hands have cared for it. Retrace your way towards
Boston and on the corner of Chilton and Court Streets is


                              Pilgrim Hall

It was built in 1824 by the Pilgrim Society and rebuilt and enlarged in
1880. It is filled with many historic and antique articles. Park your
car in the space provided a short way down Chilton Street that you may
take your time visiting here. Open to the public daily, admission 25c.

[Illustration: PILGRIM MONUMENT]

After your visit here, drive your car across Court Street and up Clyfton
Street, turning right on Allerton Street and you arrive at the


                            Pilgrim Monument

A national monument completed October, 1888, in honor of the Forefathers
of Our Country. Total height eighty-one feet. When you have read the
inscriptions and you have satisfied yourself regarding the humble
beginning of this great country, drive down Cushman Street to Court,
turn left and follow Route 3 to Kingston where on your right there is a
sign marked "Duxbury-Marshfield." Bear right on this road passing soon
on your left the


                       Major John Bradford House

built in 1675. It is open to the public and contains many interesting
things. Continue on this old road to


                                Duxbury

Here is easily found the Myles Standish Monument, also the site of Myles
Standish's old house. After your visit here, retrace your journey to the
center of Duxbury, taking the right hand road to Route 3-A which follow
to Alden Street, turning right for the


                            John Alden House

Alden built this house in 1653. It is a quaint old house and has all the
charm of the old Colonial homes. From here go back to Route 3-A. Turn
right and follow to a triple fork in the road with signs marked
"Marshfield." Take right hand fork called Careswell Street to


                     Governor Edward Winslow House

It was built in 1699. Contains many antiques. Everything is arranged to
look as if it were still 1700. It is interesting to note that some of
the old colonists lived in sumptuous style. Excellent luncheons, teas
and dinners are served here at moderate prices. The dining room is the
old carriage house and the barn has been turned into a beautiful modern
kitchen. The house is open June 1st to October 1st, admission 25c.
Leaving here turn left on Webster Road and see the final home of Daniel
Webster. His tomb may also be visited in the Winslow Cemetery close to
the house.

Follow Webster Street to Route 3-A, which will bring you back to Route 3
over which you retrace your ride to Jamaicaway and Huntington Avenue,
Route 9-C. Turn right and follow to St. James Avenue. Bear right to the
Hotel Statler.

[Illustration: WINSLOW HOUSE--DUXBURY]




                              LIKE BOSTON
                         _American Oil Company_
                HAS PLAYED A BIG PART IN MAKING HISTORY
                                   *


Just as Boston is proud of the part it has played in the history of
America, so the American Oil Company is proud of its part in the history
of the gasoline and automotive industries.

Starting in 1910 with one horse-drawn tank wagon, the American Oil
Company has grown until it reaches from Maine to Florida and inland. The
American Oil Company developed Amoco-Gas, the first and original special
motor fuel, in 1915. Amoco-Gas revolutionized the gasoline and
automotive industries--made possible today's high compression motor. The
first company-operated filling station in the East was an American Oil
Company station. American Oil Company introduced the first visible
gasoline pump--enabling motorists to see what they're buying.

The American Oil Company's growth has been built on one cardinal
principle: Honest Values, Honestly Described.

You can be sure you are getting the greatest possible value when you
drive in at the Amoco Sign of Greater Values. American's Big Three of
Quality are: Amoco-Gas, which holds more official world's records than
any other motor fuel; American Gas, the best buy at regular gas price;
Amoco Motor Oil, made from choice selected paraffine base crudes.

Drive in at the Sign of Greater Values--from Maine to Florida and
inland.

[Illustration: American Oil Company]

                                   *

If you have enjoyed these trips as much as we hope you have, why not
suggest them to your friends? Additional copies may be obtained from the
American Oil Company, Park Square Building, Boston.

                                   *


                        * FROM MAINE TO FLORIDA

[Illustration: AMOCO American Gas]

                      THE SIGN OF GREATER VALUES *




                          Transcriber's Notes
                                   *


--Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

--In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Historical Tours in and about Boston, by 
American Oil Corporation

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HISTORICAL TOURS IN, ABOUT BOSTON ***

***** This file should be named 48054-8.txt or 48054-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/8/0/5/48054/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Dave Morgan, Carol Spears
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
